OK.
Spring uses a model called MVC and that stands for Model View Controller.
So this is a very very common design pattern.
It actually dates back to the 70s where I think it was a Xerox engineer created it and later the Smalltalk
community spec in probably the 80s started picking up on it and it's been adapted widely since then.
And this is not a Spring specific technology by any means. It's widely used in .net, Ruby on Rails and
a lot of applications use this. A lot of gooey applications use this.
So traditional client server type stuff used it and it's definitely not a new paradigm at all. But the
reason it is so successful is it does a great job of separating out concerns.
So what I want to do is step through how it works and in a conceptual level.
Client whether it's a web application or a mobile application or some type of device like a client
server application makes a request and that request comes into the controller.
And in our instance it's going to be over HTTP and that controller determines how to get the model.
So that's going gonna go out and get the model and then return that model to the view.
And this is a true separation of concerns because that model that's returned shouldn't have business
logic in it.
Ideally that should be plain old Java object if we're in the Java world so it should just be a data
structure.
The controller should be a traffic cop.
He should be deciding how to get the model and who to ask the model from.
And that should be it.
I've seen a lot of bad code out there where the controllers overloaded with a lot of stuff on it.
I mean I've seen like database connections get done in controllers which is just awful.
A very very bad programming practice.
So keep the controller light.
It should be just a traffic cop.
And then the controller is going to return the model to a view component.
Now that view component whose purpose in life is to render the view for the client.
So in our case we're going to be using Thymeleaf, a templating engine. Thymeleaf is going to take the model
POJO and look at our template and generate the HTML to return back to the client.
So this all works transparently and it works out well because everything separated.
I've seen instances where people try to put in static method calls inside the view layer that call to
the database and that systems like that where things are separated become just a nightmare to deal
with.
Now let's take a look at this in a Spring context.
So this is how Spring MVC models it and getting a little detail of what happens under the covers.
So we'll get a client request come in and that could be typically HTTP and it can be for a web page or
it could be a REST service call.
So not going to get into the details of that at this point. But it goes to a dispatcher servlet
So this is the classic Java servlet architecture.
So we get that web request comes in and it decides how to handle it and refers to the handler mapping
because you're going to go to a specific path. You're making a request from a server.
So now it goes.
OK well where do I go for this.
It determines that. It determines the controller to utilize a controller method.
Now the controller typically in a Spring application is going to have some type of service layer wired
up to it. That service layer is going to get the data and return it back to the controller and then
the controller is going to take that data, the model, which is just a simple POJO return it back to the
dispatcher servlet.
And in this case the dispatcher servlet knows what it wants to do for the view.
It could be rest call and we need to return back XML or Jason or it could be for HTTP or a HTML.
And in that case we're going to invoke a view technology to render the HTML all such as GSP, velocity
or Thymeleaf. And an upcoming example,
I'm going to show you the Thymeleaf example.
So this is pretty simple but it's high low. It's important to realize what's happening here with this
request.
So again just to go through it at a high level, request comes in, dispatch or servlet, looks up the
handler mapping, invokes the controller method which in a spring context is going to go call service
get the data, return the model, and then the model's going to get passed off to a templating engine for
us in this case Thymeleaf and then that HTML is going to get rendered back to the client.